README.md, before:

# Azure Kubernetes Service audit log integration to Sysdig Secure

This repository contains an installation/uninstallation script, instructions and source code to integrate Azure Kubernetes Service audit log to [Sysdig Secure](https://sysdig.com).

[![Actions Status](https://github.com/sysdiglabs/aks-audit-log/workflows/build/badge.svg)](https://github.com/sysdiglabs/aks-audit-log/actions)

## Installation

The installation script has some command line tool requirements:
  * [Azure-cli](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli?view=azure-cli-latest) (already logged into your account)
  * envsubst (shipped with gettext package)
  * kubectl
  * curl, tr, grep

```bash
curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/sysdiglabs/aks-audit-log/master/install-aks-audit-log.sh | \
  bash -s -- -g YOUR_RESOURCE_GROUP_NAME -c YOUR_AKS_CLUSTER_NAME
```

Some resources will be created in the same resource group as your cluster:
 * Storage Account, to coordinate event consumers
 * Event Hubs, to receive audit log events
 * Diagnostic setting in the cluster, to send audit log to Event Hubs
 * Kubernetes deployment aks-audit-log-forwarder, to forward the log to Sysdig agent

## Uninstallation

```bash
curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/sysdiglabs/aks-audit-log/master/uninstall-aks-audit-log.sh | \
  bash -s -- -g YOUR_RESOURCE_GROUP_NAME -c YOUR_AKS_CLUSTER_NAME
```

## More information

Check the [developer documentation](./docs/readme-dev.md) for architecture and manual installation details.

Commit message:

Added some details to main installation documentation

README.md, after:

# Azure Kubernetes Service audit log integration to Sysdig Secure

This repository contains an installation/uninstallation script, instructions and source code to integrate Azure Kubernetes Service audit log to [Sysdig Secure](https://sysdig.com).

[![Actions Status](https://github.com/sysdiglabs/aks-audit-log/workflows/build/badge.svg)](https://github.com/sysdiglabs/aks-audit-log/actions)

## Installation

The installation script has some command line tool requirements:
  * [Azure-cli](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli?view=azure-cli-latest) (already logged into your account)
  * envsubst (shipped with gettext package)
  * kubectl
  * curl, tr, grep

You need to know the AKS Cluster Name and the Resource Group Name that you used to create your [Azure AKS Cluster](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/kubernetes-walkthrough).

```bash
curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/sysdiglabs/aks-audit-log/master/install-aks-audit-log.sh | \
  bash -s -- -g YOUR_RESOURCE_GROUP_NAME -c YOUR_AKS_CLUSTER_NAME
```

To see more optional parameters, use
```
curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/sysdiglabs/aks-audit-log/master/install-aks-audit-log.sh | \
  bash -s -- --help
```

The installation script creates some resources and configurations in the same resource group as your cluster:
 * Storage Account, to coordinate event consumers
 * Event Hubs, to receive audit log events
 * Diagnostic setting in the cluster, to send audit log to Event Hubs
 * Kubernetes deployment aks-audit-log-forwarder, to forward the log to Sysdig agent

If everything worked as expected, you can verify that the audit logs are being forwarded executing:

```bash
kubectl get pods -n sysdig-agent
# take note of the pod name for aks-audit-log-forwarder
kubectl log aks-audit-log-forwarder-XXXX -f
```

## Uninstallation

Use the same parameters as for installation. The script will delete all created resources and configurations.

```bash
curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/sysdiglabs/aks-audit-log/master/uninstall-aks-audit-log.sh | \
  bash -s -- -g YOUR_RESOURCE_GROUP_NAME -c YOUR_AKS_CLUSTER_NAME
```

## More information

Check the [developer documentation](./docs/readme-dev.md) for architecture and manual installation details.
